hello there and welcome to this
demonstration of the AWS Network
firewall cloudwatch dashboard a
comprehensive tool designed to enhance
your visibility and security within the
AWS Cloud this powerful dashboard
integrates various Cloud watch features
to give you real-time insights into your
firewalls operations and security
posture before we get started don't
forget to hit that like button if you
find this video helpful and subscribe to
our channel for more content on cloud
infrastructure
Security today we're going to walk you
through the setup process of the AWS
Network firewall cloudwatch dashboard
and demonstrate how you can use this
dashboard to proactively manage and
secure your network whether you're
tracking traffic identifying potential
threats or ensuring compliance this
dashboard is your central hub for all
things related to AWS Network firewall
monitoring now for the prerequisites
to set up this dashboard we're going to
use a cloud formation template you can
find a link to this template below this
video the cloud formation template
assumes you have an active AWS Network
firewall deployed within your VPC and
your firewall is configured to publish
flow and alert logs to distinct
cloudwatch log
groups if your AWS Network firewall
isn't set up yet start with one of the
AWS Network firewall deploy Loy mment
architecture templates you can find
links to those below as well once in
place configure your cloudwatch log
groups for the firewalls flow and alert
logs and fine-tune your firewall policy
for optimal traffic routing through the
firewall with these prerequisites in
check you're now ready to dive into the
AWS Network firewall cloudwatch
dashboard and harness the full power of
real-time network monitoring and
security let's get started you're going
to need the cloud for template that sets
up the dashboard again you can find this
in our GitHub repository and there's a
link to that below this video go ahead
and download the file from the repo this
file is the blueprint that cloud
formation will use to build out our
dashboard now let's jump into the AWS
console make sure you're in the same
region where your AWS Network firewall
is
deployed navigate to the cloud formation
service
and click on create
Stacks choose with new resources
standard to start setting up a new
stack under prepare template ensure
template is ready is
selected for the template Source we're
going to upload our file click choose
file and upload the file you downloaded
from
GitHub on the next screen you'll need to
enter a few details for stack name give
your stack a descriptive name such as my
firewall
dashboard for firewall name enter the
name of your firewall which you can find
in the network firewall
console next input the subnet IDs where
your firewall endpoints
reside and now you'll need to enter the
cloudwatch log group name for your
firewalls flow
logs similarly you'll need to enter the
log group name for your firewalls alert
logs the next option is contributor
insights rule state contributor insights
gives you the ability to analyze log
data and create time series
visualizations to provide a view of the
top contributors influencing Network
firewall you can choose to enable or
disable the contributor Insight
rules if enabled the rules will start
scanning log data and displaying results
in the contributor insight's dashboard
widgets if you choose not to enable this
option then all the rules will be
disabled and you would then have to pick
and choose which ones to enable if you
want that data to show up in the
dashboard here we'll enable it so we get
all the data visualizations in our
dashboard once you've input all the
parameters proceed through the cloud
formation Wizard and kick off the stack
creation after the stack reaches create
complete status head over to the outputs
tab
here you'll find the firewall dashboard
URI and clicking on this link will whisk
you away to your new cloudwatch
dashboard do note that it may take a few
minutes for the widgets especially those
relying on log insights and contributor
insights to populate with
data some widgets may not show data
immediately if there aren't any matching
log events yet but don't worry as your
firewall begins to process traffic your
dashboard will come to life with
valuable data and with that you've
initiated the deployment of the AWS
Network firewall cloudwatch dashboard
now that we have some data populated in
our widgets on the dashboard let's look
into what some of these widgets can tell
us about our Network and
security as you'll see this dashboard is
Rich with details providing a
comprehensive view of what our AWS
Network firewall is doing first let's
have a look at the firewall endpoints
and firewall engines sections in the
firewall endpoint section we can see
metric based data about our firewall
endpoints utilization connection metrics
and traffic
processed as we move down to the
firewall engines section we see more
metric based data on our packet
inspection by the stateless and stateful
engines as you can see here this gives
us a quick view of past and dropped
packet
counts also the firewall policy stream
exception policy setting determines how
Network firewall handles traffic when a
network connection breaks Midstream and
here in our dashboard we get some
metrics on packets that policy has
applied
to scrolling down a bit the top talkers
and top protocols section is where
things get a bit more interesting here
our dashboard brings to light top
traffic flows as inspected by surot in
fact these two sections are what you
would typically find in an nms for
example top source and destination IP by
bytes gives visibility into throughput
between a pair of ips and when I click
on a pair it also singles that pair out
by packets as well and just below that
you'll see the top TCP flows by bytes
which helps you to zero in on particular
layer 4
connections now if I scroll down a bit
further on the dashboard we get to the
alert logs analysis section and this
summarizes rule activity and the action
enforced by Syra cotta for
example top drop reject rules are shown
top blocked Source IPS and top blocked
TCP
flows and with web protocols being so
widely used the HTTP and TLS section
extrapolates layer 7 details from from
the alert log events for example you can
review this section to better understand
what domains are being blocked or
alerted on you can then use this
information to implement a domain list
rule group or to configure custom cotta
rules well there you have it we've
successfully populated our AWS Network
firewall cloudwatch dashboard with data
and explored the various widgets giving
us vital insights into our Network's
security and performance
this dashboard is an invaluable tool for
monitoring your AWS Network firewall
helping you stay on top of security
threats and network
efficiencies now it's your turn to bring
this powerful monitoring capability into
your environment grab the cloud
formation template from our GitHub
repository linked below and deploy this
dashboard in your AWS
setup thanks for joining me in this demo
if you have any questions or want to
share your experiences with the AWS
Network firewall cloudwatch dashboard
drop a comment below don't forget to
like share and subscribe for more demos
and deep dives into AWS Services stay
secure and informed and I'll see you
next time happy
labbing