what's good YouTube if you're watching
this video you successfully made it to
layer seven of that oide model where we
give you nothing but that application
you can apply directly to your life my
name is dwan life foot and I'm joined by
Brandon Carrol and in this video it's
time to get serious with get Ops now
we're going to talk about get outs but
before we do a message from
Brandon have you ever heard this before
we can't update the network the business
doesn't allow it I'm sure you have right
if you have I want you to tell us down
in the comments that's not the only
thing that we hear from our Network
Engineers we also hear that every time
we Implement uh changing the network
something breaks again sound off in the
comments I want to know if if you've
heard this as well the one that I like
the most is hey so and so is on vacation
we can't make any changes until they're
back is that you tell us in the comments
these are the problems that we hear and
these are the problems that we're going
to solve as we talk about gitops today
so
let's do it okay we just finished our
Chuck talk live at reinvent 2023 on get
serious implementing Network and
security and compliance with giops it
was an amazing session so we thought we'
make a quick video to give you five
things that you should know for applying
get outs for your network security and
compliance before we get into our top
five tips on G Ops for network security
and compliance let's talk about what
giops is g Ops Evol from devops and the
goal and the premise behind get Ops is
to take your infrastructure code and
separate it from your business
application so that way developers can
have their pipelines and focus on their
business logic and not have to worry
about the infrastructure and the network
teams and the operations team can take
the infrastructure and deploy it as code
through G now you have your version
control and then you bring all that
together with the cicd pipeline so
number one we're going to start with
networking breaking down those monoliths
when it comes to your network
infrastructures often times we have very
large deployments with routing tables
that are extremely large you may have a
Transit Gateway that has almost 1 th000
routes all your vpcs are attached to
that trans associated with that one
Transit Gateway rounding table and if
you make a change to that rounding table
then it affects all of your network that
monolith is something that you can break
down and figure out okay how can we mon
make this a micro different type of
architecture so now we have our Dev
environments with their own vpcs we have
a network centralized account and we are
able to segment our infrastructure and
now we can figure out how to leverage
cicd with gitops now number two when it
comes to gitops now we have to think
about git and infrastructure is code
I'll start with infrastructures code
infrastructure is code is saying okay
our Network deployment that we have
currently maybe we were leveraging click
Ops yeah let's figure out how we can
leverage tools like cloud formation as
well as terraform put our infrastructure
into templates and then from there we
can take those templates and put them in
some sort of Virgin control get do pull
requests around those templates in our
virgin control system using something
like AWS C commit and now we're figuring
out how we can automate with our
infrastructure with infrastructure is
code and then we can really Leverage The
Power of G Ops but we're going to talk
about cicd but first we need to think
about security Brandon yeah so here's
our uh third thing that you need to know
and this is secure the pipeline okay so
danan mentioned code commit so when we
look at a pipeline we have a couple of
things that make up the pipeline we have
code commit code pipeline code build
each of these areas is critical to make
sure that it's secured so when it comes
to code commit we want to think about
permissions and we want to think about
access to that repo
https uh SSH and making sure those
credentials are tied to IM and then also
when it comes to code pipeline we have a
service Ro that's going to be uh used
here it's created when we enable it we
want to make sure that that is
controlled so that it's only touching
services that we want it to touch we
want to use the parameter store to store
our sensitive information rather than
putting it in the code and we want to
have all of our build
artifacts encrypted and we're going to
use KMS and customer manage keys for
this uh we also can run this inside of a
VPC it doesn't do that by default but
then we can apply some security groups
and that gives us the ability to control
the flow of traffic throughout this
pipeline so that is securing the
pipeline we really got to think about
that now the fourth area that we want to
talk about is security through through
the pipeline we're taking this critical
code and we're pushing that code through
a pipeline we want that code to be
secure the two ways that I want to talk
about that's linting and setting up our
guard rails with CFN guard so when it
comes to linting linting is going to not
only look at our syntax but it's going
to look at things like hey did I
accidentally uh apply my uh public route
table to uh and Associate it with my
private routing table or uh public
subnet associated with my private
routing table it's going to look for
things like that when it goes to the
linting those can become security issues
so that's a critical piece and the next
piece is that CFN guard and setting up
those guard rails so that we can look at
things and say you know I don't want my
Transit gateway to use the default
routing table so every time I push code
through here whether or not I have a
Transit Gateway configuration in that
code I'm going to make sure that if I do
have a Transit Gateway configuration I'm
not using the default routing table and
I have these guard rails that I can
apply right up front and this is even
before it gets deployed so as we go
through the pipeline we check it if it
fails we fix it if it passes then we go
on to this test page so that's the
fourth thing that you need to know when
it comes to get Ops for network and
security and compliance let's talk
number five number five we're bringing
everything together with cicd on AWS
that's going to be aw code Pipeline and
in this pipeline I mentioned in the
beginning I infrastructure is code so
now you're building this on your laptop
you're building in Cloud9 somewhere
using templates as yam file Json with
ter with cloud formation or TF files
with terraform and then we're sending
that to the pipeline with our source in
our in our state first stage of our
pipeline which is going to be that
Source stage and here we're doing our
Version Control so now when the pipeline
sees there's a change to our repository
now it's going to trigger the entire
pipeline to go to that build phase to do
the lenting the CFN nag and all the
tests that we need to run at the you
that the user acceptance testing phase
and once those tests have passed locally
on our build which can be Cod AWS code
Bild which is a Docker container then we
can deploy to a test environment to
verify with things like reability analy
anzer as well as network access analyzer
that we have the network access and the
paths in place that we actually need and
then at that point we can do some
approvals and once all those tests have
successfully passed then from there we
can go to a chain set in that production
stage and if the chain set is approved
all changes should be done and applied
to production then from there we could
deploy to production and now we can run
our continuous integration continuous
evaluation with more tools like
reachability analyzer network access
analyzer AWS config security Hub have
this continuous evaluation of our
infrastructure now we have a fully
automated get out pipeline for our
Network infrastructure we hope you
enjoyed this video we left a ton of
resources in the description of this
video Brandon is going to take us out if
you have any comments please leave them
in the comment section below Brandon
back to you we thank you for watching we
hope you found these five uh valuable
tips for getting serious when using GE
Ops for network and security compliance
again check out those resources below
like subscribe leave some comments
connect with us and we'll see you next
time