so this is the incident handling life
cycle this is also the same thing or
sometimes also called the incident
response life cycle you know if you're
an incident responder or PCH analyst or
you know in response analyst you're
going to be using this like in sort of
like a mental model for how to respond
to incidents it has this like sort of
like cyclic nature to it so it starts
from preparation and then from
preparation you go to detection analysis
this is where you're actually doing like
investigation and stuff like that and
then from there you go on containment
eradication and Recovery those are
actually like individual steps
themselves but sometimes you have to
like go back from containment
eradication and Recovery back to
detection and Analysis like sometimes
that process is cyclic as you find more
evidence more data until you know you
get to a point where you're like okay
you know we found enough and then you
then go on to post incident activity and
then from there post incident activity
feeds back to preparation so what you
learn from your post incident activity
actually helps you become better at
preparing for incidents when they might
happen in the future so this is sort of
like you know the I guess the standard
like instant response life cycle or you
know I guess according to n all right so
as an instant handle or SL analyst we
would aim to know the attacker's tactics
techniques and procedures as are also
known as ttps and then we can stop
defend prevent against these attacks in
a better way so the incident handling
process is divided into four different
phases which we'll briefly go through
before jumping into the incident all
right so we have the preparation phase
so this phase covers the Readiness of an
organization against an attack that
means documenting the requirements
defining the policies incorporating
security controls to monitor like EDR
Sim IDs IPS and it also includes higher
end training the staff I think part of
this process also involves having like
you know your instant respon your
instant response run books or playbooks
whatever you know however they work in
your organization as part of like you
know this is what we're going to do like
when an incident happens stuff like that
but I guess that kind of goes into
hiring and training the staff as well so
that's the first first phase and I think
this is probably one of the most
important phases of an incident because
if you're not prepared for an incident
when it happens like it could you know
significantly be a lot worse I've been
actually researching uh recently about
like other adjacent fields and how they
respond to incidents so I was recently
like going through some material about
how like you know organizations like I
think the OSHA I think deal with like
incidents you know how like firemen and
you know Emergency Services deal with
incidents I took some notes here and I
kind of share them right here because I
think a lot of times like you know we
have these adjacent methodologies or
theories that we can apply into cyber
security in terms of like dealing with
like our own things because we're not
the only ones that deal with incidents
right everybody deals with incidents
like warehouses deal with incidents law
enforcement deals with incidents
paramedics deal with incidents fire
people deal with incidents right so they
they've probably been doing this like
way longer than we have been they
probably are doing this way better than
we could ever do it so there's a lot we
can actually gain from how they actually
think about incidents and something I
took from that research I was doing was
uh firstly when we are investigating
incidents it's not to assign blame and
shame but first for prevention because
those who don't know history are doomed
to repeat it I think this probably goes
into like the the end of the instant
response life cycle which is post
instant activities or the Lessons
Learned part of it because when you
actually know what happened and you're a
to like kind of documented and know like
you know the the issues whatever the
case may be you can use that to prevent
the incident from happening again or be
better prepared when is like that hats
so if you don't know history you're
doomed to repeat history that's the
first point second point is to identify
policies and training deficiency so as
you can see here in your preparation
phase right part of what you're doing is
defining policies right so an incident
could actually actually be like someone
like breaking a policy so in this case
you're able to identify right when
you're do your investigation and your
inst response if the policies you're put
in place are actually being being
properly adhered to and also you you
you're able to know if the training on
Cyber safety and different things are
actually working in accordance to the
policies that guide how your employees
do things so let's even take cyber
security out of this in the first place
right um and go into like you know
someone that works in a very U like a
construction sort of uh environment
right in a construction environment when
you're working the policy states that
you know I'm this hyp hypothetical by
the way the policy states that you
should always wear a harness if you're
on a crane and also wear a helmet so
what if you have someone who you know
very new guy comes in he's wearing a
helmet he's wearing glov all those
things wearing like a you know a boot or
whatever the case is but he's not
wearing a harness right well it might
not have been that he didn't want to
adhere to the policy it might have been
that the training didn't actually cover
the policy that he should be wearing a
harness and not just a helmet and a boot
right so in that case as part of the
instant instant investigation and
response preparation is tested here
because you're seeing that your policies
are not being even though they're defin
they're not being adhered to and they
can help you make sure that this person
is doing what they're supposed to be
doing and you do actually event have
have an incident so I think all this
kind of like feeds back into like both
like the lessons learn and preparation
cuz like if you remember which we looked
at here it's you know it's it's cyclic
right they they all feed back into each
other that's enough about preparation I
do have a couple more points um here but
you can go into that into that later all
right so we have next the detection
analysis phase this is actually where
I've spent most of my career so this if
you're a suck analyst or you know like a
tier one analyst it's probably what
you're going to be doing most of you
know your work you're going to be more
in this phase of the life cycle and this
covers everything related to detecting
an incident and the analysis of the
incident this phase covers getting
alerts from the security controls like a
Sim an EDR um investigating the alert to
find the root cause and this phase also
covers hunting for the unknown threat
within the organization so there's a lot
actually goes on in this phase but it
typically you know is you know from like
that you know alert you know like you
know what you what you're doing as a
tier one where you get you know the
alert from the Sim whatever the case is
you kind of do your triage and then if
there's anything you can then escalate
to like you know the seniors or like you
know the responders um they also say
this also covers some hunt so if you
define something during like a huntting
expenditure or you know something like
that this could also you know be part of
your detection and Analysis right
because it's like the first you know
sort of like Way by which you're able to
identify that something has happened
something bad or something probably bad
might have happened right so that's the
detection and anounces phase next we
have the containment eradication and
Recovery phase so this is actually the
part of instant response that I wanted
to learn more about because lot of my
career for like the you know the last 3
4 years have be mostly focused on you
know detection and Analysis I also
wanted to learn how to do contain
containment how to do eradication how to
do recovery right that's kind of why I
you know started looking for a new role
and you know got into my my my current
role you know part of the containment
right so if you think about you know
sort of like in a nuclear you know
there's a nuclear think of like a
nuclear bomb in this case right I don't
mean to be all I don't mean to like us
you know something like that devastating
but when something like that happens
right it's like okay how do we contain
you know this area right if you watch
the movies like contain the area so it
doesn't spread beyond that because if it
spreads beyond that there's you know
more loss of life more degradation of
the environment but if you're able to
contain it to like this small area
you're kind of able to like make sure
that okay we can just like focus on this
because the bigger it gets the the
harder it is for us to deal with it so
we want to make sure we don't let it
spread beyond what it is at now
eradication is like okay now if
contained this like nuclear you know
whatever you know area that we're
dealing with how do we how do we
actually like I don't know like Defuse
The Bomb or how do we like actually like
make sure that this you know nuclear
waste or whatever it is like you know
just ends here right I don't know maybe
use some anti nuclear thing to clear it
out but in cyber secur it's like okay
how do we if the attacker is present
within this cont pained environment how
do we kick them out how do we like you
know put them up how do we make sure
like they no longer have access and then
when they no longer have access recovery
goes over how do we make sure we get
this system back to its working State
how do we get this business function
back to its working State how do we make
sure that you know things can go back to
to normal now that we've taking out the
attacker and no longer have access and
there's no spread in the network right
how do we make sure that we go back to
business operations as usual that's
where the recovery face comes back so
it's a whole lot of it's a whole lot of
things it's a whole process but
containment eradication and Recovery can
of entirely embody those different
things all right next we have the post
incident activity Lessons Learned
learned it sounds like someone that is
from Europe because Americans like to
say learned but this phase includes
identifying the loopholes in the
organization security posture which led
to an intrusion and improving so that
the attack does not happen next time the
steps involved identifying weaknesses
that led to the attack adding detection
rules to that so that a similar breach
does not happen again and most
importantly training the staff if
required now I I do want to add
something onto this right because
incidents come with loss right uh when
you when you have an incident there's
you lose something right you lose time
you lose Manpower you lose money
sometimes right you lose good reputation
one of the primary goals of a business
whatever the business is whatever it is
whether whether they they're in for for
profit for profit or not for profit is
to not lose is reducing loss so it's
like by any means we can't lose like we
should not be losing so when you have an
incident you're losing you're losing
time you're losing money you're losing
reputation you're losing you know
Manpower right a lot of things are being
lost so when you have incidents your
goal is to make sure that they don't
happen again because if if if this
happens all the time think about it if
you think about like something like the
MGM attack right I was watching a
documentary yesterday about how MGM was
losing like millions of dollars a day
from the attack alone and this is aside
from like what the attackers might have
actually like stole from them whatever
the case may be but they were losing
Milli just from just from not having any
operations they're losing millions of
dollars a day but that's not just what
they're losing they're losing the
reputation right what has happened
they're probably going to lose even more
except if there's like a monopoly right
but they're probably going to lose more
in reputation because people are not
going to want to deal with them because
we didn't protect my credit card
information personal information I
probably wasn't safe in the hotel
because like all these attackers had
access to everything so that's a loss of
reputation they've lost a lot from that
attack so the goal is to not always to
maximize profit but to reduce loss
whenever you have an incident you're
losing a lot of things which you know is
kind of inevitable But ultimately not
for it to happen again