[Music]
hi there I'm Brandon Carol and welcome
to my YouTube channel where we explore
Cloud infrastructure Security in a way
that's easy to grasp and dare I say a
bit fun now for those of you who haven't
met me yet I spent the last few years at
AWS as a security developer Advocate and
my days are all about helping you and
Builders like you to secure your Cloud
infrastructure now whether you're just
starting out or if you're looking to
deepen your knowledge I'm here to guide
you every step of the way I've always
believed that the true value of learning
comes from doing and so that's why
Beyond just sharing knowledge I'm all
about rolling up our sleeves and getting
hands on I encourage you to lab it up
because when you do it really makes the
learning
now I have a background as a Cisco
instructor I'm a ccie in security I've
led a tech evangelist team and I've
written a ton of technical content
including a few Cisco press books my aim
is to take my life experience the
experience I've had in technology and
bring you insights that are not just
theoretical but actually grounded in
real world application so here on this
channel I don't want to just talk about
Cloud security let's build it Let's test
it let's secure it I'm here to share
insights and honestly to learn right
alongside you I'm committed to making
content to learn about Cloud security
that's as accessible as possible this
isn't the only YouTube channel you'll
find me on you'll find my AWS specific
content on the AWS Developers YouTube
channel along with content from a ton of
other top-notch creators so be sure to
head over there and subscribe as well so
if you're looking for a place to learn
about securing your AWS environment
securing the cloud discuss best
practices or even dive into the
nitty-gritty of firewalls and identity
management look no further now be sure
you hit that subscribe button jump into
the conversation and don't hesitate to
share this Channel with anyone who's
excited about Cloud security and wants
to learn more let's make 2024 the year
we all level up our security skills
together and remember when it comes to
learning there's no better way than
getting hands on so until next time
happy
labbing